As product managers, one of our best
sets of skills is curiosity and empathy
and trying to understand our users. But
the moment that we're talking to an
executive, we forget those skills and
those talents.
>> It's your fault if the leaders didn't
buy into your ideas.
>> People completely misunderstand how
executives make decisions. What is going
on in the heads? I describe an
executive's calendar as a strobe light
going off. You wake up at 8:00 a.m.,
you've already got a huge list of urgent
things going on. They have not had the
time, the energy, the wherewithal to
center your problems.
>> What are their goals? What are they
trying to do? How are they measured?
Connect the thing you're pitching them
with that success.
>> There's ways for us to ask much more
interesting questions of our executives.
Tell me what the board is pushing you
on. Execs want to be successful, too.
They want to be good at their jobs.
>> Sometimes you have the best idea and
they just don't bite.
>> One of the biggest things you can do to
build trust is kill things. Dep
Prioritize things. If you're thinking
about how do you be more senior, how do
you show up in a way that is in a
leadership mindset, you get paid to be a
domain expert, your executive is looking
for you to be the deepest person in the
room. Bringing your expertise to bear is
absolutely crucial. You have to act like
a CPO.
Today my guest is Jessica Feain who's
been a product leader at Box and Slack
and Brightitewheel and now at Webflow
and she has gotten very very uniquely
good at the art and science of influence
and in particular influencing
executives. Influence might be the
single highest leveraged skill for
product leaders outside of AI. We
actually get into how AI is changing the
skill of influence. I've never heard a
podcast conversation get deep into the
art and science of influence, how to
actually change people's minds and the
mistakes that people make when they're
trying to influence leaders. We get very
tactical and very specific. There's a
bunch of stuff in this conversation that
I've never heard before or thought
about. I am very excited for you to
learn from Jessica. Before we get into
it, don't forget to check out
lennisproduct.com
for an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Now, let's get into it.
after a short word from our wonderful
sponsors. This episode is brought to you
by Omni. Many product teams today are in
the process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guest add SQL in
production is a huge mess and just a bad
idea. Omni takes a different approach.
They have a semantic layer built in so
that when you embed their analytics, the
AI actually knows your business
definitions, not just your raw tables.
You can test queries, validate the
reasoning, and lock down permissions
before anything hits production. If you
want AI analytics in your product
without building the whole stack from
scratch, check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3we trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and Buzzfeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's omni.co/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history, I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality, and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
>> Jessica, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me. It's my pleasure.
Let's set this conversation up. We're
going to be talking about the skill and
the art of influence and in particular
uh influencing executives and leaders,
people above you that you want to
convince to do things you want them to
do. Help us understand why this is worth
people's time. Why is this worth the
next hour of someone listening to this?
Why is this skill so important to
people's careers? I think as product
builders, there's almost not a skill
that's more important. Influence and
building a momentum behind great ideas
is the way that great products actually
get built. And if you don't have that
influence, if you don't have the buyin
and the backing of your key
stakeholders, of your executives, you
can't build great products.
>> Something that I personally went through
is just like I I was in a period of like
I don't need to work on this skill. I'm
just like, I'm just going to do amazing
work. I'm just going to it's going to
show itself. Everyone's going to
recognize it. And you just everyone run
into this wall of like, oh man, all
these other people are getting promoted.
Maybe talk about that because it feels
like that's a big trap. People run into
you.
>> I think why I wanted to talk to you
about this is, you know, when I was an
ICPM, I was putting forth ideas. I was
trying to reflect what I was hearing
from my customers. I was trying to get
sort of buyin and excitement about the
work that I thought was really going to
move us forward. And at the time that
I'm thinking about, I was a PM at Slack.
And some of my ideas got people really
excited, you know, got me funding and
backing and just really a sense that we
could accomplish something great. And
some of my ideas and the things that I
really really believed in died on the
vine. They went nowhere. And I was so
confused and frustrated honestly because
I felt like, hey, I really get this user
base. I really understand what's going
to move the ball forward. And I don't
understand how these decisions are
actually being made behind the scenes.
And uh I was uh eight months pregnant,
eight and a half months pregnant. April
Underwood, who had just been named CPO
of Slack, um she had just come back from
maternity leave. We had a two-day
overlap. And I sort of got up my courage
and I said to her, "April, I've admired
you for a long time. I love the way you
work. I I really love the way you think.
Um, and I really want to understand it
better. If you'd ever consider having a
chief of staff, I'd love for you to
consider me. And when I came back from
that maternity leave, I came into a
stint as April's chief of staff and was
later chief of staff to Tamario Hoshua.
Um, who succeeded succeeded April,
>> who's been on the podcast,
>> who's been on the podcast, right? And is
now a CPO and head of AI at Atlassian.
Tamar, don't um be mad if I mess up your
title. And what I learned through that
process is that people completely
misunderstand how executives make
decisions, what is going on in the
heads, in the calendars, in the
incentive structures of executives. And
instead of really understanding where
that exec or stakeholder is coming from,
they center themselves. They center
their own desires, their own
motivations, their own slice of the
world, and they end up just not being as
successful both in their career, but
also in the types of products that
they're building.
>> What's an example of that when you talk
about people don't understand how
product leaders actually make decisions,
how they decide what to do, what to
listen to. What's an example?
>> Oh my gosh. I think the biggest example
of this is people don't understand
executive calendars, right? A lot of
times on Google calendar, it's blocked.
you can't see what they're working on.
But I describe an executive's calendar
as like a strobe light going off. You
know, you wake up at 8 a.m., you've
already got a huge list of urgent things
going on. You go from a meeting with
finance on a budget to an interview for
another executive to a people problem to
a legal problem to a product review. And
the product manager coming to that
product review or the leader who's
trying to make a pitch thinks I've been
prepping for this meeting for two weeks,
three weeks, maybe six weeks since we
last spoke. But the executive coming
into that session hasn't thought about
you since. They may not have gone to the
bathroom today, right? And you have to
understand that they have not had the
time, the energy, the wherewithal to
center your problems. and you have to
help them get into that mindset. So,
this is as simple as execs are people
too, right? They are running around
context switching in the most insane
ways I've ever seen. And everything that
comes across their plate is an
emergency. So, one of the biggest
tactics I think is so important is just
take 30 seconds at the top of a meeting.
Why are we here? What happened the last
time we talked? Why is this important to
you? Why is this meaningful? and really
remember that they are not thinking just
about you. They are optimizing for a
global maximum and not for the local
that you're you're optimizing for.
>> Essentially, this is how to help someone
in this world that is running around
from meeting to meeting without context
on most things, maybe hasn't had time to
go to the bathroom. How do we help them
see what you want them to see and maybe
buy into your vision and suggestions?
Yeah, I think that um you know, one of
the ways that I phrase this is how do
you get the best out of your exec? How
do you help them be their best selves?
We often think about how we show up in a
meeting or the doc that we wrote or the
prototype that we've got ready, but we
don't think about how they can be at
their best. How do we give them the
right kind of information in the way
that they communicate? You know, we as
product leaders have to be communication
chameleons. We have to be speaking their
language like love languages, right? But
appropriate for work. Um, and you have
to think about do they really uh turn a
spark with a design, with a customer
story, with a dashboard, with an
experiment, and how do you understand
how their best brain, how their best
expertise gets turned on to give you the
best of themselves. But part of that is
literally just setting up the meeting
effectively so that they can have the
context, the wherewithal, the sort of
breath at the beginning of the meeting
to to dive into it.
>> The other thing I always tell uh people
I managed is it's your fault if the
leaders didn't buy into your idea. Like
it's not you can't just be like ah they
never they just don't see it. It's not
my fault. I they they agreed to do
something else. I always tell them like
that's just you're not able to influence
them and convince them that you're
right.
>> Yeah. And I Annie Pearl who was my first
PM manager back at Box. Uh she's
>> also former podcast guest.
>> Also former podcast guest, a former CPO
at Calendarly and Glass Door and now at
Microsoft and Annie's just the best. She
always said to me, "It's not my fault,
but it is my problem." And I think that
that's the vantage point that a product
leader has to have, especially if
they're trying to put themselves in the
in the shoes of an executive. As product
managers, one of our best sets of skills
is curiosity and empathy and trying to
understand our users. But the moment
that we're talking to an executive or to
a stakeholder, we forget those skills
and those talents and we begin to think
about our ideas, getting that approval,
getting to the next meeting, whatever it
might be, the incentive that we are
driving. We don't think about the
curiosity and empathy for what they're
thinking about, for what their
incentives are, for how their day has
been. And if we can take some of those
skills of building great products and
think about our executive as our key
user here, then we can have a much much
more productive conversation. You know,
I think one of the most disastrous
things you can do is going into a
meeting just looking for approval for
your plan. Instead, if what you go in
with is how can I learn, how can I
strengthen this plan, how can I use the
domain expertise, the context, the um
the experience that this person brings
to the table and imbue that into my
product work. Both the executive will
like you better because they will feel
like you have actually built product
alongside them, but you will also end up
with a with a better product. You know,
I often hear people say to me, "Oh, they
just don't get it, right? They don't see
what I see. They're not in my meetings.
They don't know how hard this is."
Fine. If you don't respect that person,
if you don't believe they know something
you don't, you need to quit. You need to
go work somewhere else. But if you
respect them, if you think they have
something to offer you, that they got to
the place that they're at because they
learned and they developed a skill that
you're trying to gain, awesome. Take the
feedback, take the insight, ask
questions, and don't just treat it like
a rubber stamp because that's a failure
state and it's a failure state that they
don't like. I want to dive deeper into
this stuff, but first something on my
mind is some people might be turned off
by this topic in terms of it may feel
icky of just like uh I don't want to try
to be this like manipulative person and
you know deal with politics and
influence like I just want to do awesome
work. Why do I have to do this? Speak to
that person that's kind of just like
feels icky about building this and
working on this and being this person.
>> Yeah. I think that when people frame
this as politics, they're completely
missing the point. Politics is
manipulating outcomes in people for your
own gain. Influence is about increasing
the odds that your good ideas survive.
And I think what happens is people
actually let ego and let their own
narrative, their own scope of influence
get in the way of empathy. Right? So
this isn't politicking. This is
learning. If we treat our stakeholder
conversations, as discovery interviews
as a way to strengthen our ideas, then
we end up in a much much better place.
And if we do that in a in a genuine and
low ego way, um I'll give an example
here. Um Noah Weiss who succeeded um uh
Tamario Suez, CPO of Slack and also
former podcast.
What a what a run we're on here.
>> Oh, I uh No. Yeah, I I've learned so
much from Noah. We sat down uh to write
product principles for Slack and uh
Ethan Eisman, our head of design um was
leading that initiative. But really this
was a lot about codifying the early
ideas that made Slack great, especially
from a product principles and and sort
of craft perspective. And we started
talking about this um and Noah had been
at Slack early on and he he pulls out
like a small notebook that he kept in
his bag and he said, "You know, I
actually have a section of this notebook
that I've been keeping things I learned
from Stuart over the years." Now, he
hadn't been keeping that notebook
because he said to himself, "Oh, one day
we're going to write product principles
and I'm going to want these quotes on
hand or I'm going to show off that I
have this." No, it was for genuine
learning and growth of his own ideas and
place as a product leader that he was
taking those and and what it allowed him
to do was reflect back to Stuart ideas
and principles that he had, but also
grow his own product sense intuition.
And as an organization, it then allowed
us to scale those principles. Um, and
and I think was a really really
important part. And we worked with a lot
of the sort of early Slack folks and the
people that had really developed that
culture, but it was folks who had really
tried to grow and learn. They weren't
trying to politic. They were trying to
build great products. And that's the
approach we have to take.
>> Okay. So, what if you're not working for
Stewart, which most people, you know,
Stuart also former podcast guest? I feel
like uh just the alumni of Slack. Holy
moly. Just like this is a just the fact
that
>> what a just the fact that I have so many
of these people on the podcast. What a
sign of an incredible team. Okay, so
yeah. So most people do not work for a
steward that has incredible product
sense, really cares about craft and uh
you know most people are like I he's so
or she is so wrong about what we're
doing. This is such a mistake. They
don't listen. They don't know what
they're talking about. How do you deal
with that? One assumption I have of of
how folks may misunderstand this skill
is that they have to be a yes man. They
have to take everything that the um the
leader said and do exactly that. That is
absolutely wrong. You get paid to have
an opinion. You get paid to be a domain
expert. And in a lot of ways, your
executive is looking for you to be the
deepest person in the room, especially
if they're good at their job, right?
they're looking for you to be the
expert. And so bringing your expertise
to bear is absolutely crucial. Um, you
know, Elon Frank who was who was my boss
at Slack as well is now CPO of Checker,
he always had a customer anecdote in his
back pocket. Like I can hear him in my
head saying, "I was just on site last
week with so- and so and they said blah
blah blah." Right? He always brought his
expertise to bear and many of the
executives at Slack were not from a
strong enterprise background. so he
could bring that to the forefront. I
think that has to be married again with
that curiosity and empathy. If you hear
something that you don't agree with,
this is something that on a guy my team
does super super well right now. You
know, he'll hear something that flies in
the face of of what he's the data he's
seeing, the insights he's gotten, his
experience in his domain expertise, and
he'll say, "That's so interesting. What
led you to believe that?"
That kind of question is actually
curious about this person said something
that I think is dumb, but there must be
something behind it. And so if I
actually care what's behind it, and what
you end up doing in that in that
question is co-creating with the person
who offered the opinion in the first
place, you're able to say to them, I'm
interested in what led you to that
belief, your experience. Did you have a
meeting last week? Are you getting
pressure from the board right now in a
certain way? What is leading you to that
belief? I think one thing that really
trips people up is
execs are so good at seeming certain.
They say things in an authoritative way
with confidence with shity because so
much of their work is having to make
those ultra fast decisions with little
information.
But if this is someone who is also a
learner, who is also has a growth
mindset, then if you are able to help
them unpack why they believe something
and then respond with your own domain
expertise, you are able to get to a
better solution together.
>> I love these very tactical phrases and
tips for how to deal with someone, say a
leader, say you're, let's just say this
is like, you know, they're a director of
product, VP of product, CEO that you're
trying to convince to agree to a plan.
So, one phrase, the phrase you're
suggesting here is, uh, that's so
interesting. What led you to believe
that? Um, anything else along these
lines? Say you're pitching your product
or an idea to say a VP of product and
they're just like, what what else would
what else what else works?
>> The earlier that you can understand the
belief system and the things that are
important to them, the better off you're
going to be. So, very, very early on in
this process, what is top of mind for
them? I can count on one hand when I was
chief of staff, how many people asked me
for advice before going into our product
review with our CPO or other executive
team to say, "What do you think is most
important to them right now?" Use the
people around them, their EA, their
chief of staff, the people who have
successfully pitched ideas in the past
and say, "What worked? What do you think
they're worried about? What are the
risks?" And in an age of the tools of AI
that we have, this is so much easier
than it's ever been, right? You can ask
Slackbot, "What has Rachel been posting
about lately? What what do you think is
most important to her?" A colleague of
mine, a peer on on our product
leadership team trained a GPT on a bunch
of um transcripts from past product
reviews that are all publicly available.
And we expect that our PMs are running
their PRDS or their their pitches
through that to say, "What's Rachel
going to push back on? Where are their
weaknesses in this ideas?" You can also
train things on where are your own
weaknesses? I know I've gotten feedback
in the past that my data is a little
thin or that this kind of UX thinking is
thin. Give me feedback on that. Cloud's
amazing for this. And so I think that
the the first step is actually just
saying what's important to them. What do
they want to hear? And anchor on that. I
think the second piece is going in to
learn, not to convince. And the earlier
on you do that, the better. So we have
something at Webflow uh called office
hours. as early as you can you are
having these conversations to align on
strategic direction maybe even before
you have a one-pager you know uh we
implemented something at Slack with
Stuart because we realized we were
coming to him with like done designs and
he was like what the [__] is this I this
is completely different than how I had
this in my mind so Ali Rail early Slack
employee implemented something called
hey Stuart what do you think and we
would just sit with him for half an hour
and say what do you think on this topic
what's your belief system, what's your
past experience? And we started with a
user interview, right? We started with
we actually want to download your
expertise here. And I think that when
you engage execs in that way, it's
really, really valuable. Like one of the
things I see people do poorly is they
don't ask for the time. They, you know,
this is sort of in counterpoint to what
we were talking about before with how
busy their calendars are, but they're
afraid to ask for more time to get that
insight. But sometimes if you don't, you
miss the point.
>> Something that we hear a lot on this
podcast is as a product leader, as a
leader of any kind, you want to have a
point of view. You want to come into a
discussion with here's here's our
options. Here's what I think is the
right solution. And then at the same
time, as you're describing, you want to
come across as I want to learn. I'm not
here to convince you. I'm here to just
like help understand your worldview and
where you think the right path is. How
do you think about just those two kind
of that balance of I have something I
believe is right and okay but I'm here
to learn and get your feedback and see
what you think makes sense.
>> Okay. So my advice on this may be a
little paradoxical because um I think
people make mistakes in both directions
on the polls here. On the one hand I
think there's an error people make of
trying to show too much work trying to
tow too much upfront proof point. We
talked to 16 participants from these 15
geos and this is the statistically
significant and the exec is like I'm so
bored I'm going to die. I remember I did
this in a review once and literally the
person I was most trying to convince
glazed over got on their phone and I
totally blew the meeting because I was
trying to prove that I had done my
homework. Put it in the appendix. Right?
They don't need to know every single
detail. the baseline expectation is that
you did your job and that you this that
this is built on a solid foundation of
your domain expertise. On the flip side,
I think there's some balance of showing
your work that helps elucidate why your
solution is best. So, one of the
mistakes I see people giving is is doing
is giving only one option.
I think that people if you say I mean
this is also like classic pricing and
packaging strategy uh give three options
and the goldilocks in the middle is the
perfect one. Right? But I think that
what that actually allows you to do is
say hey we considered we are not dumb.
We did not miss something. You think we
missed something but no no we actually
considered this. So we had a recent
product review with my manager Rachel
Woolen. uh she was a recent guest on how
I AI and we uh brought a doc a sort of
reasonable approach to what we thought
was the sort of problem and strategic
space we were going after.
It didn't go well. it really didn't
match her expectations and the feedback
she gave us which was really really the
right feedback was I don't understand
how you're thinking about the
permutations of possible here because we
had only given one option set and so
what we did following that review is we
said hey we really want to sort this out
we want to get moving we want to show um
that we can really get building on this
on this product and alignment is the
next stepping stone for that can you
meet in two days and we turned around a
new doc in two days that actually showed
all of the options we had considered but
hadn't brought to that first review. And
once we elucidated all the things we
considered and why we thought they would
or wouldn't serve the outcomes we were
driving and the technical complexity
behind them, she was like, "Oh yeah,
okay. I see why the solution that you're
proposing makes the most sense for what
we're trying to accomplish." But in the
first version, in the first meeting, we
hadn't kind of shown that and we hadn't
workshopped it through her. And so
sometimes, you know, really tactically,
you you want to have that available to
you. It's not necessary to put all 15
options you considered, but at least be
ready to show them. Have them in an
appendix, have them in a draft Figma
file, whatever it is. Um, we uh we we
used to have this rule after a design
review with Stuart. We'd go through the
design review and he'd say, "No, do it
exactly like this. I want, you know, the
button here and the interaction to be
this." And frankly, he always had better
ideas than than we did, but we would
come back and we called it Stuart plus
two more. So, we did exactly what he
asked for and then two other versions
that we felt good about. And then it
gave us a a forum for conversation to
debate the merits of each type of
approach. Awesome. Okay. So, there's a
bunch of advice here. One is the default
is don't go in with here's our whole
process that landed on this suggestion.
Uh but have that ready because they may
ask for that if they don't buy into it.
Another is present options. And then
there's a here's my point of view.
Here's why I think this is the right
one. And then if they dig in, you have
be ready for more options. Have you have
you ever looked into the Mento pyramid
way of presenting stuff?
>> No, I don't know what that is.
>> Okay. So, this is there's this uh lady
Barbara Mento. she uh she's like from
the 50s I think she was the first female
uh consultant at McKenzie or something
like that and she kind of figured out
the best way to present information to
execs is is uh backwards essentially
it's instead of here's our process
here's all the things we did here's our
set of conclusions and then here's our
recommendation it's flip it start with
here's our recommendation
and then here's the things we explored
and then here's the evidence behind that
feels like that's kind of what you're
describing Yeah, I think that's a really
good way of doing it. I think my only
gloss on that would be that people are
really different, right? Like execs are
people too. And so one of the things
that I think is really important is
understanding what is the literal
format, storytelling, pre-work that is
going to work for that person. You know,
some people hate a PowerPoint and it's
just going to crush their soul if you
start doing that. Um, some people only
want to see the data and not the user,
you know, the the qualitative research.
Um, and so I do think it is about really
understanding their communication style.
And execs, if you're listening to this,
it's really [__] helpful if you tell
people because you actually know what
you like and don't like. And so just
tell people, I prefer a doc. I want no
upfront explanation. I want 10 minutes
of quiet reading time and then we can
come back together. That's a
particularly effective um means for for
very busy people and short meetings um
and especially in remote work where
presentations just don't work very well.
Some execs are willing to do pre-ereads,
some aren't. Um and I I think you just
have to be willing to accept that they
are also human and you're trying to give
them the best shot at inculcating the
information in the way that is
meaningful to them. So, there's a bunch
of uh tips here that I want to summarize
for how to kind of set yourself up for
success. One is what you just described,
which is just think about how do they
respond best? What kind of setup do they
respond best to? Is it a presentation?
Is it a here's what we recommend. Here's
three options. Is it uh data? Something
else? So, there's like just understand
here's what this person likes. They they
don't want a they want like five minutes
fast conclusion. Why? Uh then there's
your advice of ask people that know them
what is top of mind for them right now
because they may be like this is the big
bet we're making right now if it's not
align with that they're not going to
care. So it's like either either ask
them or ask people around them what's
top of mind for them right now and then
there's this idea of simulate almost
simulate them feed all the previous
meetings with them into say cloud
project or something like that create a
little GPT and run your idea by them and
like what would you say
>> I will tell you I am not a big fan of
the what's top of mind for you uh
question this a hot take because I think
that what often people do is they think
through their top priorities their top
experiences is, you know, if we were
trying to do a research study uh to
understand the day-to-day lives of our
users, we probably wouldn't say, "What's
top of mind for you?" We'd say, "Tell me
how you spent your day." We'd say,
"What's the most urgent priority for you
right now that you're really scared
about messing up? What um pressures are
you facing?" And so, I think there's
ways for us to ask much more interesting
questions of our executives. Um, I
recently did this with our CEO. I said,
"Tell me what the board is pushing you
on because everyone's got a boss and uh
even a CEO who seems so powerful and
competent and um and and sure is getting
pressures, right? What are you seeing as
the the the key inputs to your success?"
The other thing people don't realize is
excepts want to be successful, too. They
want to be good at their jobs. And how
can you help them? I mean, in the best
case scenario, your incentives at a
local team level or product organization
level really closely align with their
incentives that you're working on
something that really matters to the
company. If you're not, you really
should be having that conversation
because you'll be in misalignment from
the start. But if you actually have
alignment, point out that alignment. How
is the metric that they're trying to
move? The OKR they're responsible for
the board pressure that they're under
going to be improved by the thing that
you are proposing and how do you get
there together. So I think that one of
the things people really miss out on
here is
what are the success criteria for an
exec and how do you model your world to
amplify that success so that both of you
can be more successful.
>> Okay, that is such an important lesson
before we I follow that thread just to
clarify this question of what is top of
mind. Your advice uh was ask people
around them what is top of mind for
them. Don't ask them directly this
question. top of mind has become this
sort of trope, right? It's uh it's execs
write a weekly write up of what's top of
mind and it sort of becomes this generic
uninteresting sort of neutralized frame.
And so I think the question what's top
of mind for you has actually lost some
of its firepower and instead we have to
get at what is the emotion the um the
sort of drive behind it and and what's
the spicier question that'll get a more
interesting answer. So then but going
back to this incentives piece such a
powerful lever for getting anyone
basically to get anyone to agree to what
you want which is what is what are they
what are their goals? What are they
trying to do? How are they measured?
How's success for them? And then how's
the thing you're pitching them aligning
with that and will help them achieve
that specific goal.
>> Right? And in a product in building
products together, your incentives
should be making your users successful,
making your business successful because
of that. And so what do they actually
believe about that? It's not just about,
oh, they want a promotion or they don't
want to get fired or they want to hit
their KR. Those are very very real human
things. But in an ideal world, in
product work, it is really based on
building incredible products for your
users and therefore great outcomes for
your business. And so I think a big part
of this is actually understanding their
strategic insights and what they believe
is going to move the business forward um
most effectively. So after I was chief
of staff, I took over Slack's core
product team. We worked on channels and
emoji and search and messaging. And
there was a real feeling from our
executive team that we had a bit lost
our mojo around product craft. And we
talked about, you know, painting the
insides of the cabinets. We really
wanted such an amazing experience for
our users. That was one of the things
that makes made Slack great in the first
place was just it really felt like a
product that took that
usability to a 10x place. And there was
a sense that I had heard from our
leadership that we weren't quite there
and we had lost some of that. And that
was so so important to who we were and
how we showed up for our users. And so
we implemented something uh called the
customer love sprint. Uh we said, "Okay,
engineering, stop what you're doing. As
an entire team, we're going to spend two
weeks just painting the inside of the
cabinets." The only rule was engineers
got to pick what they worked on. We we
supported them from a PM and design and
and customer support perspective. We
gave them tons of ideas, but engineers
could pick what they worked on. The only
rule was that you had to ship something.
You had to ship something that was good
for users. And what we did is, you know,
you could call this a bug bash. You
could say, "Okay, you gotta fix these
uh, you know, these these rough edges,
these these misses in the product, but
we made it a huge deal. We made it
really exciting and fun, and we had a
big really fun judging competition that
our executives took part of, and we
really brought back that part of our
culture that we had lost out on a bit.
And it spoke to what our executives
believed was a differentiation for us
and how we were going to show up in the
market, show up to our users, grow our
user base by making it feel special. And
we were able to say, "Oh, we shipped 65
improvements this week, this this
sprint." And and that felt really really
aligned with what they were trying to
accomplish from a company perspective as
well.
>> Okay. So to summarize the kind of
tactics so far, one is align your pitch
with the person you're trying to pitch
is incentives. I don't know if the
grammar on that sentence works, but what
are they trying what does success look
like for them? Connect the thing you're
pitching them with that success.
>> Yeah, I think that um aligning your
incentives is yes really really
important in a product pitch. If you're
thinking about a product pitch, how does
it connect to the company goals? Are you
trying to um improve conversion rates?
Are you trying to grow enterprise
customers? Are you trying to be
perceived in brand? Are you trying to
break into some new category? Of course,
you have to align on a new pitch. I
think the inverse of this is how do you
use that incentive structure to also
inform regular roadmap? not uh you know
just net new product ideas or net new
pitches but you're actually imbuing your
entire team and your thought process
with that incentive structure it's a
deep understanding how did the OKRs get
to be the way they are how did the
positioning statement get to be that way
how do I understand that and deeply
embed it into my team's culture so that
we're reflecting what our exec team our
leadership has said is important
>> so basically Everything should feel like
it's a cohesive set of priorities based
on some outcome you all agreed to in the
mission.
>> Yeah. And I think a a big part of this
is also metrics and data and what you're
actually measuring your your own teams
on. You know, we talk a lot about uh
leading and lagging indicators. Um or in
the nonprofit world, this is called
theory of change. Uh there are many
steps. You yourself and your individual
team may not be able to directly move
enterprise revenue or directly move
conversion rate. But you believe and the
company has a belief that painting the
inside of the cabinets having an
exceptional customer experience will be
the thing that leads to customer
retention, customer conversion, um user
satisfaction. And so how do you make
sure that your metrics and the things
that you are proposing to actually shift
ladder up really really clearly to those
and that your executive agrees to that.
>> Okay. And then the a second lever is
trying to not go into a conversation
even though you are trying to influence
them. It's to go into it with an open
mind and and a learning mindset. You use
this phrase uh that's so interesting.
What led you to believe that?
>> Right. And I think in that is um a
disarming of the executive. You know,
again going back to like how do you get
the best out of them? You want them to
feel comfortable. You want them to feel
like they can be honest with you. I
think something I see people miss often
is they don't follow the subtle threads
that executives lead them, the sort of
breadcrumbs of opinions. you know, in a
in a sort of more clear-cut scenario,
your leader, your executive will say to
you, "Okay, I'd like a brief on exactly
this thing. Write it generally this way.
Let's review it in a week." That's a
very clear-cut ask, but very very often
the asks are more subtle. I wonder if
I'm thinking about, have you considered?
And what I find is that people don't
take the bait and the best people do. So
I'll give you an example. Just last week
um you know we've been working a lot on
as uh skills get democratized across web
flow everyone can do design everyone can
ship code uh everyone can write a PRD
how are we enabling people to move as
fast as their brains and tools will make
them. Uh Rachel our CPO said you know
hey Kev our head of design we're going
to have to think about design reviews at
some point. And within an hour, Kev had
had a loom put together of, hey, here's
a framework of high-risisk design
changes, lowrisisk design changes, blast
radius, release processes, and how we
might allow anyone in the organization
to have designs shipped to production.
That was a thread. She didn't ask him to
do that. he didn't need to follow up in
that time frame, but he recognized that
the organization's incentives are to
keep empowering people, to keep everyone
moving fast, to keep everyone um really
excited about what they're building as
well. And he knew that he could slot in
and respond to this feedback really
really quickly. A lot of times I see
people don't take that invitation from
the executive to actually engage on the
feed, the subtle feedback they're
giving. you know, uh, an example from my
past where this didn't go as well was,
um, we were in a strategy review, you
know, sort of a quarterly strategy
review, and it was probably the fourth
time I had heard Tamar ask, I want to
see, I'm interested in seeing the top 10
use cases on X. And the fourth time it
happened, she got really frustrated. She
said, we've talked about this so many
times before. Why don't we have this
documented? And I think it's because
people are not picking up on the cue
that there's really something deep
underneath. There's really an important
piece of feedback or a question that
they're not pulling on. Maybe you think
that that's not an important thing to
do. And then you need more information
about why they think it's important.
Because if you just let it go and you
don't respond to the feedback or respond
to the ask, that person loses faith in
you that you're going to follow up on
the thing that they believe is
important.
>> It also sounds like a really good way to
influence is you take the reigns and
here's where I think we could go with
this and here's the answer to your
question.
>> Absolutely. I mean, I think if you're
thinking about how do you be more
senior, how do you show up in a way that
is in a leadership mindset, you have to
act like a CPO, you have to come in with
that perspective. You have to come in
with a solution. You have to follow the
thread that they've asked about. You
have to do it quickly. Um, one of the
missteps here is, you know, people treat
these interactions as so high seeks and
sometimes they are, but one of the ways
that you you fail at that interaction is
you wait too long to to engage on the
feedback. If you wait a week for the
follow-up items that you discussed in
the meeting, that exec has moved on and
you've missed your chance to actually
respond to the feedback in a in a in a
quick manner. you will get so much more
excitement, enthusiasm, brain power from
them if you keep the ball rolling in a
in a timely manner.
>> And obviously there's like, you know,
everyone's so busy, there's already so
much work on their plates, you can't
just hop on everything an exec says.
There's also this like classic advice of
sometimes exacts just say something and
everyone takes it so seriously. Oh, I
have to do that. And sometimes they're
just saying it in passing. So, it's
probably all, you know, it's a balance
of like take the opportunities, don't
have fun every single thing.
>> Yeah. And a great question to ask in
that in that scenario is how strongly do
you feel about this? So if you hear
something that they say really strongly
um or how urgent do you think that is or
hey here's what the team is working on
now. Do you think that that trumps these
priorities? And if they say yes, listen,
do the thing that they say trumps it.
Right? It's not about jumping on every
request or taking every piece of
feedback. It's about contextualizing it
in why they believe that, what they
think the urgency is, and then actually
responding to that. So, more often than
not, they'll say, "I wonder if we could
do this kind of study." And people will
go and say, "Oh my gosh, we have to go
run that study right now. We have to dep
prioritize everything else." But if you
say to them, hey, that's a really cool
idea. I I like that. Do you think that
that's more important than these three
other studies or three other projects
that we're working on now? And they'll
say, "Oh, no, no. That's just like a
random idea. put it on the backlog. I
think that um execs are moving so
quickly that they won't always give you
that context of urgency and so you have
to ask for it. This is something I've
been working on getting better at as a
leader. This is just an idea. Um this is
a mandate. This is something I want to
see. But uh it's hard sometimes it's
hard to remember to do that because your
brain is spinning with ideas.
>> This comes back to your point about uh
getting into the mind of the person in
the meeting, the leader. They're running
around all day. I think you call it a
strobe. You're just like bam, another
meeting, next meeting, next meeting,
next meeting without a lot of context
and they just say things and sometimes
it's import to them, sometimes not.
Which comes back to one of your tips at
the beginning of this chat is
>> spend 30 to 60 seconds at the beginning
just giving them a little context on
what the heck. What would you recommend
in that 30 60 seconds? What are some
kind of key bullet points of what you
want to communicate? Yeah, in the 30
seconds I would say we're here to
discuss XYZ. Last time we met, we left
it off here. The goals of today's
meetings are ZYX.
We're going here's how we're going to
run this meeting and then stop talking
because the moment you go off over 60
seconds, you've lost them. And and oh, I
think the other really important thing I
would add there is to say, was there
anything else you were hoping to cover
today?
>> That was awesome. I love this advice. I
am excited to tweet this out just to
summarize these bullet points you just
shared. Uh that is so cool. I love that.
And to your point, if 60 seconds flies
by, you may think you're talking for 60
seconds. It often ends up being 5
minutes. So the advice of keep it under
60 seconds. Just like try to actually do
that.
>> Try to actually do that. I think the
other thing here is, you know, this
often depends on what kind of meeting
what what you're actually doing. You
know, in our culture, we do a lot of
sort of silent read of docs or watching
a loom um in the meeting and then coming
back for conversation. I think one of
the things that I've seen be really
effective in coming back for that
conversation is often times a a leader
will smatter your doc with a hundred
comments and you're like, "Oh my gosh,
what is actually important here?" So,
what I often do is I have a section at
the top to say themes for discussion. I
bubble up some of the biggest and most
controversial pieces that can only be
discussed live. And anything they've
said that they're just curious about,
what's the time frame for this? What's
the staffing need for why, I can answer
offline, I can answer a follow-up. What
I can't get again is the time for
discussion with that group. And the
safer that they feel in that discussion
and the more that they think that you've
understood what is the most sort of
spicy or controversial, that's where you
get to the good stuff and you really get
their insight and input. So I, you know,
put a section at the top and say topics
for discussion that I'm reading through
the comments. Rachel, was that right?
Did I sort of get your thoughts right?
Anything you would add to this? And then
we can talk about uh the the the really
good stuff that gets us to a better
outcome. My podcast guests and I love
talking about craft and taste and agency
and product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? Sock 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first sock 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vanta
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vant makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at bant.com/lenny.
We've talked about aligning your
incentives and goals with their goals.
Uh going in with an open mind, setting
context at the beginning of the meeting,
understanding how they like to be
presented to. What else can we learn to
become better at influencing execs? And
let me just do a quick tangent. As
people are listening to this, they may
again be like, "Oh my god, all this BS I
have to do. I just want to do awesome
work. Why am I spending all this time
learning all this meta work of how to
convince someone of a freaking thing? I
just want to build awesome products,
drive, you know, growth for the business
and the product and this sucks." I think
it's again important to remind people
this is just the way things go. You need
to influence people in power to agree
with your approach. That's just the way
it is. You can't just be like, "Nah, no
one no one understands me. It sucks."
So, it's not my fault.
>> I mean, it's literally your job, right?
They uh I think the way that product
management has has worked for a long
time is you basically get funding for
your ideas in the form of engineering,
design, uh you know, crossunctional
resourcing, right? that is you should
consider that VC money that's been
invested in you and your CFO, your CPO,
your CEO is expecting a return. And so
what is the way that you are showing
that you are building great products
that that honors that investment in you
and
sure you can go into a startup and be
the sole decision maker and that is a
very very valid way to work. But if you
work with other people, having them
excited, interested, passionate, um,
bought in to what you're doing
will make everything easier. I It is
also the job, right? You you also have
to, but I think I think the thing I want
people to take away is that it's really
the way to build well. You know, when
people are motivated, when they feel
purpose, when they feel like this is
really something that I believe in, they
work harder. They support you more. They
talk about you in rooms that you're not
in. And so, it's it's just actually the
way you deliver great results.
>> I I think that's such an important
framing. Okay. What other tactics, what
other techniques work in helping leaders
uh get influenced?
>> Yeah. put get influenced. I love that. I
love that. Um
>> yeah, we should we should have like a
stamp like influenced uh at the end.
>> So I think one of the things that people
misunderstand is the constraints that
they are bound by versus their
leadership. you know, execs are not um
they they don't have the same boundaries
of budget and headcount and um and
timeline that you feel. They can move
people around in the organization. They
can ask for more resourcing. They can
get creative. They can elevate projects,
kill projects. Um and so you know you
have to come to them with that mindset
of hey with today's resourcing with this
many engineers or this kind of tooling
or this kind of investment here's what
what I can get but I'm thinking of the
10x case I'm thinking of the accelerated
case and if that's what you want and if
that's aligned with your incentives
here's what I need to be successful and
so I think that people think okay well
I've got my pizza team and I've got my
four engineers and what you're asking is
not possible. Well, if it's not
possible, tell them why not. Come back
and say, you know, the thing that you're
asking for, I'm super stoked about that.
I need eight more people. I need you
twice a week for an hour. I need much
closer alignment with our marketing team
and I'm not sure how to get that. You
have to think about what are the
constraints that hold you back that they
can actually help you a lot with. And
people miss out on this all the time of
not asking for what they need to be
successful, especially when the ask from
the executive seems unreasonable.
>> This is such a good adi piece of advice
of just if you get them excited enough,
things can significantly change in terms
of resourcing and prioritization. Like
your job is to help them see that how
massive an opportunity this is and go
and not just give you what you want, but
just like wow, okay, here's the way to
unblock this thing. Uh here's how we can
go. like, okay, this is going to be our
new bet big bet. Let's let's go big
here.
>> Yeah, absolutely. This is going to be
our new big bet. And this comes back to
aligning with what the company's trying
to to accomplish. And also the urgency.
So some things if you added a dozen more
people or perfect alignment with go to
market, yeah, you could get them to
market faster, but is that the most
important thing for the company goals?
is right now the answer is accelerating
this in this way actually going to do
more or is it something else that's
actually more aligned and so I think
it's still being so rooted in the
company goals in what the exec is trying
to accomplish in what your users really
need to be successful so that you can
say in order to accelerate our goals
here's what we can here's what we can do
>> like you know if you were in charge of a
company you were you'd be so excited if
someone came to you with a 10x next idea
that's going to change the trajectory of
your product like that's what everybody
wants.
>> Uh and so uh that is a really powerful
way of approaching all these things.
Obviously not every idea is going to be
a big idea. Not every idea is a great
idea. A lot of times these take time.
Also maybe speak to that just like say
you have a big idea and they're like
nah. What what are some expectations to
set for people that come up with a big
idea that just isn't getting any
traction? You know, it really depends on
what kind of organization you're working
in. You know, if you're working in a
smaller organization, if that big idea
is something that you can build on your
own or you can build within versus if
you need, you know, a large large scale
investment. I think the real thing about
um uh building toward a big idea towards
something net new, the key is really
outside and around the executive. So if
the executive is the decision maker on
whether we're going to invest here, they
also want to understand from their
peers, from other experts what why this
actually matters. If you have something
net new that you want to bring to market
and customer success thinks it would
really accelerate expansion rates or you
know the the marketing team thinks that
uh signups would be 10xed because of
this. if you have that cross functional
alignment. And this is where a lot of
these lessons don't just apply if you're
going into a a product executive
meeting, but that if you're influencing
your cross functional execs and your
cross functional stakeholders to be
advocates on your behalf. I I think
that, you know, we now have more tools
than ever to as as product folks build
out the V1, right? prototype something,
build your own app, build the messy
version of it, get feedback, iterate,
and be socializing that in a way that
creates a ground swell of buyin. Um, to
the point that, you know, the exact
can't say no to the funding. Along those
lines, it feels like to me the biggest
reason that a leader doesn't buy into
your pitch is you just have different
information. They don't see what you
see. They don't you don't see what they
see, right? They have all this other
stuff that they're looking at and trying
to decide. Maybe speak to just like that
skill of trying to clarify information
on both sides.
>> I'm thinking about a a a tool April
Underwood taught me. Um, she said she
used to go into product strategy
meetings with Stuart and was really
trying to extract some of his ideas, but
she was always holding the whiteboard
marker. And so there was this back and
forth between them in the conversation
of I'm trying to imbue I'm trying to
understand deeply what you're seeing in
the market, what you're feeling in the
business, what your instincts are, but
I'm also going to package that in a way
that is translatable, is actionable, is
in a framework that you might not have
had in your head. And so that is like a
great tool for marrying that leader's
instincts with your ability to sort of
not synthesize their approach but really
um take that approach and and accelerate
it for marrying what you know about the
world and what they know about the
world.
>> So it's kind of what I'm hearing is kind
of take it upon yourself to help them to
kind of align your world view with their
worldview. And there's this question
coming back just like like help me
understand what I don't what was the
question you had? Uh oh that's so
interesting. What led you to believe
that? Like these are kind of questions
that help you extract what you don't
know that they know.
>> Yes. And I think there are also really
different phases of a relationship.
There's a phase when you're new. You may
not have so much facetime with that
person. You don't really know them that
well. But I think that this is a place
where time spent together really just
accelerates your trust with them, your
um ability to speak freely, to ask
difficult questions to get real
feedback. And so um especially if you're
in a position where you can ask for that
time, more casual time, less fraught
that you're not always pitching an idea,
but you can have real conversations.
that is also the groundwork for the
pitch down the line. I think people
devalue that that time upfront spent
together because it pays dividends for
the later pitch.
>> Yeah, I'm glad you went there. That's
exactly where I was going to actually go
is this idea of trust and building and
having, you know, giving the person a
reason to kind of assume that you know
what you're doing. Um, obviously hard to
build trust. And the reason I think this
is important is sometimes you have the
best idea and they just don't buy it
because they just don't know anything
about they don't they don't know what
you've been up to. They don't know how
awesome you are, how smart you are, how
successful you've been your whole life
and career. Uh maybe because you're new.
What are some tips for trying to build
trust with the leader so that these
things become easier?
>> I think in terms of building trust, it's
really important to ground yourself in
what they believe. If you are pitching
an idea that is wildly
different than something they believe,
don't bother. You probably have nine
other good ideas that are more aligned
with the beliefs that they already h
that they already hold. Follow those
instead. So, there's something about
just engaging uh from a baseline
assumption. If they feel strongly about
something, okay, maybe you can come back
to them once or twice and say, "Are you
sure you feel strongly about that? I
really see this data." And if they say,
"Yeah, I feel really strongly." you
probably have to drop it. But in terms
of building that long-term trust, I
think the biggest things that do that
are really hearing them out and
actioning on the feedback that you've
gotten in the past, having results. You
know, it cannot be overstated that
impact in the organization, building
great products, shipping amazing things
quickly, feeding that back to the leader
to say, "Hey, we worked with you on
this. We shipped it. It went well.
Here's the results." that builds you
momentum to be able to go back with the
uh the more novel approach or the
scarier one. I think the other thing I
would say is um one of my favorite well
actually one of the only business books
I've ever liked is called Switch. Uh
it's about change management and they
talk a lot about shrinking the change um
which is this brilliant idea. If
something seems scary and overwhelming,
how do you make it so much smaller so
that it's an experiment? It's uh a
oneweek uh proof of concept. It's
something that feels really small that
can get people over the hump of well I'm
not going to invest in six months for
this project if I don't know if it's
going to work. So shrinking the change
is a huge way to build momentum and
trust. And I think this applies to the
way that we develop all products
especially if you're doing something
that lasts longer than a month. What are
your milestones? What are the chunks at
which you're showing outcomes and fit?
And this is easier than ever to do with
the tools that we have at our disposal.
How are we showing that we are taking a
much more iterative approach so that you
can build that momentum, build that
buyin and get that trust to to do the
bigger thing. That's an awesome very
tactical piece of advice here to
convince someone to do something is just
reduce the risk essentially reduce the
investment to help build trust in okay
this is showing success because
obviously it's much easier to bite off
on something that's going to take two
weeks or have very low risk and impact
if it's not a good idea.
>> Yeah, I think that's absolutely right
and I think what is the type of risk
that they are most afraid of too, right?
Is it wasting time? Is it time to
market? Is it that they don't actually
think this is going to work with
customers? So, if you can start to and
and you can and should ask this, what
are the outcomes you're most afraid of,
right? What would a failure state be um
for you in in this experiment? You know,
there's there's a concept of red
teaming, which is originally a military
tactic and and now being applied to
businesses. How do you take an outsers's
perspective to your idea and not just be
so obsessed with your own thinking, with
your own concept? Because so often we
get wrapped around the axle. Especially
I I I actually find this happens even
more with prototyping. You build a
prototype and you're like, "Oh, looks so
beautiful. I would have never been able
to build that before." That's actually
like not a very good idea, but um but
you get obsessed with it and you're
unwilling to accept that it could fail.
I think one of the biggest things you
can do to build trust is kill things,
deprioritize things. That is a very very
senior way of thinking, right? And it
shows that you have the same aligned
incentives as the executive who's
thinking about the good of the company
outcome, the user outcome, and not just
your own. That is such a good one
because everyone's always just trying to
acquire more resources, more investment,
just like more features, and showing
that, okay, this is a terrible idea. I
know I spent like months on this, but
no, we should kill this because it's not
working,
>> right? It's not working. And and here's
how I'm going to know that's not
working. And here's when I'm going to
come back to you with a decision. Right?
So, sometimes we don't know the a lot of
times we don't know the outcome,
especially with AI native products. And
if we can say, we're going to test this.
here's how we're going to know it's
working. We'll come back to you on X
date. I think one thing that really
spirals people out of control is is a
desire for certainty. You know, as human
beings, many of us have have a huge
desire for certainty. Now more than
ever, that is not possible. Um and so,
uh one trick that I learned, especially
working with engineers who often have a
very very high, uh desire for certainty,
um is to say, I don't know the answer
right now. I don't know if this is going
to be successful. I'm going to check in
with you on X date. That's when we're
going to come back and have another
conversation. And so at least there's
certainty about the next check-in point.
And that can be a really powerful uh
tool for sort of deescalating the fears
and risks around a given initiative or
idea.
>> Okay. Before we get into AI's impact and
all this stuff, are there any other
common mistakes people make when they
are trying to get better at the skill of
influence or just any other really
powerful tactics for increasing your
ability to influence leaders?
>> Something people miss is the extremely
broad context that execs bring to bear
from not only their experiences but the
things that they are hearing in their
day-to-day life. They understand what
other product teams are working on
better than you. They understand the
conversation at the E staff level.
They've been to executive roundts and
they are hearing and one of your jobs is
to extract that insight and information
and apply it to your ideas and they want
to feel like you care, like you respect
that, like you can apply it to your own
thinking. And so this this keeps coming
back to that curiosity and empathy. What
if they know that you don't that you can
actually apply to strengthen your
thinking or inform the direction that
you want to take your team? Um, and I
think people just often don't ask those
things um of of their executives. They
don't uh show a curiosity for the
expertise that that person has has
brought to bear. And frankly, I think
often they don't really care, which is
the chief mistake. um they should really
actually take it into account to
strengthen their own thinking.
>> Yeah. So much of this is about just uh
coming into it with like here's what I
it's just like having the same
information. And I think this point
about just like believe they know what
they're doing is is so underappreciated.
Like there's a reason they're in this
role. There's a reason you're not there.
There's a reason this company's doing as
well as it is. Uh and so and even if
they are wrong like they believe they
are right. So it's important to
understand what they think and know and
what information they have access to.
>> Yeah. And I I think the other piece of
this is for anyone thinking about how
they grow their career.
How did that person get into the role
that they are in? They broadened their
context. They saw you know sort of had
great peripheral vision. And that is a
way to show up in a room that is much
more senior than you are is keep your
domain expertise, keep the things that
you know best, but broaden your
perspective, broaden your um vantage
point to think about it in the context
of the whole ecosystem, the whole
organization, the whole industry, which
you often don't get a a chance to say
it. And what happens at that point is
you get seen as a strategic thinker. you
get seen as somebody who really cares
about the company's success and not just
your own and so it is actually a really
really important tool for growth
especially you know I had told April
when I originally pitched her on being
our chief of staff that I I wanted to
take the job because I wanted to know if
I if I wanted to be CPO when I grew up
and and it's true I still don't know um
because it's a really really hard job
and I have just way more respect than I
ever did before before that but I think
that if you want to grow into a product
leadership role. Expanding your
viewpoint, expanding the way that you
see problems and thinking about it from
a global perspective is a way to show up
as that strategic leader that you say
you want to be.
>> I love this advice just to make it very
clear for people because it's easy to
just like, yeah, okay, I'll just like
expand my horizon. Like basically the
advice here is uh just like think on
behalf of the entire business, not just
your feature, not just your little goal.
It's like what is the business trying to
do? Here's how this fits into it. Here's
what the here's what the CEO broadly is
thinking about. Like here the epitome of
this to me is Jeff Weinstein, I think is
how I pronounce his last name, or
Weinstein at Stripe. like he's just like
a PM on a product and he's just
constantly tweeting and sharing uh
Stripe as a business. Like he's just
like thinking about Stripe as the
company and then here's this thing I
work on that helps the company.
>> Absolutely. And Jeff and I work together
at Box.
>> Oh, you did? Oh, that is so cool. Right.
Okay. Would you agree he's like the
epitome of this?
>> Oh, yeah. I mean, he's so charismatic
and able to to really put himself in
other people's shoes. I mean, I think
that um it is just a way to, you know,
we we just redid our PM career ladder
for this year. Um, and I led that
effort. And one of the things that we
noted as a a trait of becoming more
senior is your product citizenship and
how much you are embedding back in the
organization and giving back best
practices, mentoring others, um,
broadening people's horizons on tooling,
technology, storytelling, and and of
course strategy. And I think that this
is such an important part of people's
growth that uh they often underell but
you can do it at every level in your own
area and it's about connecting the dots
back up to what is important to the
company. So you know so many times I see
docs that are like okay our KR is to
ship this thing and I'm like
why does that matter? Like does anyone
care? um you have to tell a story and
even if that's true that shipping is the
car sometimes that's the case right but
even if that's true why are you doing
that what is the outcome for the
business why would the CEO be excited
about shipping that uh it's usually
because of some business outcome or user
outcome that you have to tie back to
their perspective of and then I think
the flip side of is if you're working on
something that doesn't shift one of
those outcomes or isn't urgent for the
business, do you need to change course?
Do you need to say, "Hey, actually, I
don't think this is the highest leverage
thing right now." Um, we could actually
do X uh to to be much more effective for
our broader goals.
>> That that's where I was going to go is
just like that's the ultimate trust
building move is to tell the leaders,
okay, here's our goal. Here's all these
ideas, but we don't think this is the
right goal, and here's how this doesn't
fit in, and here's why we should kill
this product.
>> Right. Exactly. Right. Think like a CPO.
put yourself in their shoes. I mean, you
had Stuart on a few weeks ago and he
talked about how the CEO is kind of the
only one who can really kill things
across a,
you know, things that already exist or
um really make some of those super super
tough decisions. I think that is often
times our culture, but is a mistake. If
we each think of ourselves as owners and
as contributors to the business and as
leaders, we will bring those
opportunities up as well to both amplify
the business or save it from itself.
>> Do the job you want versus the job you
have.
>> Classic.
>> Yes.
>> Okay, let's talk AI. I feel like you
can't have a you cannot do anything
these days without mentioning AI in some
way. Uh, how is AI changing the skill of
influence? What's changed in the past
couple years in trying to convince
people to do the things you're hoping
them to do?
>> I think that we are entering a golden
age of product management, not of
product managers, but of product
management and the core skills that made
this function the thing that I love to
do. You know, more than ever, what we
have to do is have really interesting
ideas that are grounded in user empathy,
curiosity, testing, iteration, but we
will still be working in organizations
where getting buy into those ideas uh
and influencing people to fund not just
the V1, but the much more expensive V2,
3, 4, and ongoing support become 10x
more important.
And as execution basically plummets in
uh in complexity and everyone can be a
builder, PMs can and and product
thinkers which I think is far beyond the
product management function um can
be so incredibly influenced by those
core skills of bringing people along for
the ride. So I think that product
managers for a long time have made their
careers on being the most type A the
Gant chart master um the best notetaker
in the business and if AI is better than
you at analyzing data or taking meeting
notes or running experiments what's your
job now so the leverage actually shifts
from doing that work and being the
synthesizer to deciding what work
actually survives lives and encouraging
other people to buy into that process.
And I actually think it's just so
incredibly exciting because PMs and
other functions, engineers, designers
are so empowered to bring that first
version to bear to get that momentum to
get that signal on product market fit on
user benefit and then build momentum
from that point in a much faster cycle.
And so it's actually like an incredibly
exciting place. But the act of
influence, the act of stakeholder
management, the act of learning is the
10x skill.
>> Awesome. This is such a fun topic with
the way I've been thinking about this is
just like where are human brains going
to continue to be necessary and useful
in this new world.
>> I'm terrified.
>> Maybe maybe nowhere.
>> Maybe nowhere. But the way you described
it, which I totally agree with, is
essentially it's deciding what to do and
getting everyone on the same page,
alignment uh around that. Here's we're
all on the same page. Here's what we're
prioritizing. And then it's like, cool,
now let's build it. And that happens so
quickly now.
>> Yeah. And what can you notice that AI
can't? You know, AI is not good at being
an anthropologist yet, right? It is
based on a corpus of existing knowledge.
And I think the best product thinkers
again across functions that I've I've
worked with really are able to get to
novel insights through that user empathy
through that understanding and through
deep understanding of the business
dynamics changing industry and bringing
those together to prioritize ideas that
actually really really matter. You know,
we're going to have so much software we
won't even know what to do with it. But
what software actually works? what
software actually matters, what software
gets marketed or sold or you know we're
we're gonna have to think about not just
that the software exists but that it can
get to its final state and that is going
to require people's buy in to that idea
working.
>> Yeah. Uh the way I think about this
right now is just like where humans are
still necessary and uh great product
thinkers are still necessary is uh on
the front end deciding what to
prioritize and build on the back end
determining if this is good and ready
essentially judgment and taste and then
there's distribution I think is such an
underappreciated like new bottleneck
because as you said there's so much [__]
out there just like how do we get anyone
to pay attention to any of this stuff
every day there's is like a new
life-changing product. So, I feel like
that's going to be a big problem.
>> Oh, I want you to do a whole episode on
distribution because I feel this so
much. Right. If everyone thinks they can
build the next Salesforce on their own,
by the way, I don't believe that. Uh
then, you know, you're going to have
just a flood of available tools. And who
gets the attention? It is still going to
be who has the marketing dollars, who
has the brand reputation, who is the
existing customer base. distribution is
everything and I I think the
quintessential example we've seen here
is with Gemini and Google's tools and
and just their total um continued
dominance in that market because of
tools of distribution. Um and I think
it's really fun to see. I think the
other piece I would say is that's
underrated there is trust building trust
with your users but also with your
internal teams. You know we're seeing
even model companies hire at a huge rate
right now. So you are still working with
colleagues. Uh you are still working
with millions of users and alongside
distribution is trust and that is a a
function of influence and empathy. Along
these lines what I wonder is we talked
about these other two kind of areas.
Humans are still valuable and great
product leaders are still valuable.
Deciding what to build knowing if it's
ready and awesome. Uh, I wonder how good
AI will get at those things because we
never thought AI would be amazing at
coding and now it's 100% of code will be
soon written by AI. And I've actually
been building a bunch of stuff and I
just find codeex and clock code are so
good at actually giving you ideas for
what to build. I'm just like, what
should I do to make this better? And
it's like, here's 10 ideas and then
they're like, that is a really good
idea. So, I think it'll get there.
People underestimate how good it'll get
at these things, I think. Yeah, I do
think that as um as ideas proliferate
and as there just becomes so many ideas
and so much feedback, you know, we're
going through a strategy doc rewrite. I
think we have like 40 versions now
because it's so easy to rev on a 15-page
doc. Actually, when when these decisions
are happening faster, building is
happening faster. The flip side of that
is mistakes compound faster as well. And
strategy clarity becomes so much more
important to anchor people on if you
want to have an empowered EPDI
organization or company. that that
clarity of what you believe, what are
the most important problems to invest
time and energy into what uh where we
want to invest compute and dollars. Um
that is the mechanism for letting people
go and run at as fast a velocity as
they're capable of. Right? So if you
have that corpus of shared beliefs that
you update on a pretty fast clip because
uh I think that's that's the mode we're
in. that is actually what enables teams
to build the right stuff as opposed to
just the idea that cloud had.
>> I love this point because there's a lot
of talk on Twitter actually just today
uh in the PM community about PRDS are
dead and I think it's exactly the
opposite which is being very clear about
what we are doing and the strategy is
now the most important thing because
once you have that then it's cool fire
off 100 agents and we'll go build it and
launch it.
>> Totally. Strategy clarity is is so so
important. I am not in the Twitter
verse. I find it exhausting partially
because I think takes like PRDs are dead
or software is dead is like really dumb.
Um I find it a little insufferable. uh
if I'm being spicy because I still think
what matters is understanding users,
understanding business and economic uh
dynamics, understanding
strategy and what we're trying to
accomplish and then really thinking
through what is the right way to do that
together.
>> Okay, maybe one more question uh along
these lines just agents now running as
colleagues. Everyone's got all these
clouds running, codeexes, all kinds of
agent platforms
now that agents are a part of kind of
the workforce and increasingly
uh is there anything there around
influence that is valuable for people to
start thinking about to learn how to do?
>> I love that question. you know, uh, we
talk about this a lot, especially when
we think about identity security
compliance that agents are a teammate
for accelerating work um, and and the
risks that that also provides because of
the um, places where agents fall down. I
I think agents are absolutely something
we have to think about w with relation
to um to influence because um, we are
basically all directors of work now,
right? If we have an army of agents or
this hundred new colleagues that joined
our team, how would we onboard new
junior team members who don't already
understand our product philosophy?
What's important to us? And how do we
codify that for ourselves? How do we
take the time to say what's important to
me as a product leader that I want to
inculcate into um anything that's
developed for my team? What do I believe
about um product market fit? what do I
look for in terms of what success looks
like? How do I set metrics? And if we
can do that upfront work to actually
like analyze ourselves and where we've
seen success, where we've seen
downfalls, and then continue to train
our agent models with that um that data,
that history, that context, they will be
better off. But I also think the flip
side of this is guard rails. Where do
you need to be involved? Where do you
need to catch hallucinations or
missteps? Where do you uniquely have
taste, uh, judgment, frame of reference,
something intangible where you need to
say, "Don't do this without me."
>> What's so funny about this, essentially,
we're helping the agent learn the skills
we've been talking about to influence
you.
Here's context on my goals. Here's what
I understand about the customers. here's
our current priorities like help me tell
me what to do and it's like influencing
you to agree.
>> Absolutely. I think Wow, that's really
the singularity, isn't it? Uh you should
just feed this podcast to a bunch of
agents and see if they can do this
better than me. Um see see what their
advice is. No, but I really think at
this point we are in a place where it is
a back and forth and where we should be
using agents and AI as um a really smart
colleague that never gets irritated by
our questions. Poke holes in my ideas.
Um tell me what you would do
differently. Um help me plan this out.
Uh base this on more uh corporate
context than I could ever have gone
through myself. Um and and poke holes.
And I think that um that is a just like
a really powerful way for amplifying our
work.
>> Oh, it's like so interesting like one of
your you know tips is come into an open
mind and learn it's like exactly what an
agent does. Tell me more. What else
should I and then just like hopping on
your ideas like okay cool we'll add that
to the two like all the ideas you've
shared agents are so good at. So that's
yeah
>> I think that um one thing I'm really
curious about you know you were talking
about human brain chemistry is just how
we can protect our brains from overwhelm
>> the the speed of ideas change um
building is
we are diseolved for this pace of life
we were evolved uh I I love this book um
Pachenko that tells the history of um a
Korean family over several generations.
And in one of the generations sort of in
the 1600s, 1700s, there are two wives
that every day cook breakfast, then go
to the market, buy rice, buy fish, buy
vegetables, go home, cook the rice, cook
the fish, serve dinner, clean up dinner.
That's the day. And for the vast
majority of human history, that was kind
of our day. And the mental load that we
are asking of our brains right now is
staggering. And so I think one of the
ways that we actually have to use AI is
and agents is to help our brains be most
effective is to clear out distraction to
point out the most important things to
and I I think this is where people
really need to make some tough
decisions. How much can we really focus
on and how do we allow for that focus in
the ways that are hopefully good for
humanity?
>> What a time to be alive, Jessica. Holy
Oh my god. Uh before we get to our very
exciting lightning round, is there
anything else that you wanted to share?
Anything else you want to double down
on?
>> One thing I think that I'll say is I'm a
people person. I love in-person
collaboration and I love talking ideas
through and whiteboard sessions. I'm a
two-wing three. If there are any other
anogram fans out there, it's uh it's a
mix of like the people person, the sort
of bringing to the communal thinker with
the achiever. Um that is my personality
type. I think that um sometimes I can
give this kind of advice and people say,
"Oh, well Jess, you're you're good with
people or like you kind of understand
these things." I think that something
that has taken me a while in my career
is how to be authentic to myself in
influence, in relationships, in trust
building. And I don't think that it's
one personality type or another. I think
that you could be shy and introverted or
uh super data oriented and technical. I
think all types of personalities can in
their own authentic way communicate with
the people around them to build trust to
build influence in the way that feels
true to them. You know, I think when I
uh when I was younger in my career, I
was starting out as a PM, I got a lot of
feedback of, oh, Jess, how do you, you
know, show up more like a man would?
Show up more aggressively, show up more
um uh decisively. And I think there was
some good nuggets in there, but I think
it took me a while to feel like, hey,
who I am and how I show up is actually
my superpower that I can double down on.
And I don't need to be like someone
else. What I need to do is think about
what I want to accomplish and how I want
to grow and do that in a way that is is
true to me.
>> I could not agree more with that. I've
uh shared very sim similar sentiment on
the pod a few times. Just like you can
accomplish the same things other people
can through your own strengths. You
don't have to do it the way they're
doing it.
>> Exactly.
>> I so agree.
>> A beautiful way to end that. And with
that, we have reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready?
>> I'm ready. I'm so excited.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> I think there's a genre of book I've
really fallen in love with. Uh I
mentioned Pachenko before. Um, I love
historical fiction because it really
gives me access into worlds that I don't
know. You know, they uh I can't remember
who talks about um windows and mirrors.
Books are windows or mirrors for us. And
uh historical fiction, especially about
places where I'm less familiar with that
history, is really a window into someone
else's experience. Um, and there's a
particular uh type of historical fiction
that I just loved, which is
multigenerational historical fiction.
Uh, Pachinko does this with a family in
Korea over generations and moving to
Japan. Uh, there's a book called
Homegoing, which is about the west coast
of Africa and the impact of the slave
trade um, and the ongoing uh, life in
Africa from two uh, split parts of the
family. Uh, history of burning is a is a
book that tells a story of um Indian
indentured servants that were brought to
Uganda to build the um British railroad
there. Um, and just parts of history
that I was so much less familiar with
and really treasure that sort of window
into um a different world.
>> I think the book overstory is an example
that. Have you heard of that?
>> No, I haven't. I think I might be
getting it wrong, but it's called
overstory, which is around it's a
concept of uh when you have a big tree
like the overstory is the branches that
kind of sit on top that kind of create a
shade.
>> Oh, that's beautiful.
>> That's the book I'm thinking about and
it's the story of a family over many
generations and around a tree.
>> Oh, great. Now I have to pick that up.
>> Was popular. Okay. If it's the one I'm
thinking about, I think you're going to
love it.
>> Okay, great.
>> Uh favorite recent movie or TV show
you've really enjoyed. You know, again,
this is another window. I have been
obsessively watching The Pit, which is
probably a a lame answer. I wonder if
anyone else has given you that so far,
but I just really um it's given me such
a vantage point and a view into the
incredibly difficult work that emergency
healthcare workers do and the stresses
and the system and the brokenness that
they operate under, but also the extreme
care and love that they bring to their
work. and has just given me so much
admiration.
>> It is trending on this podcast. So, uh,
and I I'm watching.
>> It's really good.
>> It is really good.
>> Okay. Favorite recent product, favorite
product you've recently discovered that
you really love.
>> Okay. I I bought my husband a towel
warmer. It was like 35 bucks on Amazon
and it has led to so much joy in our
household. Just getting out of the
shower to a warm towel is so great. Um,
it's a really fun addition to the to the
family. So, highly recommend that. Um,
it's a it's just a cheap and easy way to
to brighten your day a little bit.
>> I want one. That sounds amazing. Does it
sit on top of an existing towel rack or
is it a separate thing that you
>> It's a separate thing. It's sort of like
a basket that you put the towel in. You
could put it in for half an hour, an
hour, set it on a timer. It's so cool.
>> Okay. I love this idea. Never been
mentioned before. But I think uh u more
in the in the tech vein of products I've
loved um I've been a loyal user of Casa
which I believe you tweeted about as
well as a Kasa user. Um Casa comes in
and they they have this idea of what if
everyone had a household assistant. Um
and so they come in, they take stock of
every paint color, every appliance,
every light bulb. Um, and anytime
something breaks or you need something
repaired, you can just say, "I need new
light bulbs for this room." And they'll
immediately send you them from Amazon. I
need a new dishwasher. Ours broke. And
they'll send you three options that fit
your space um and are good quality. Um,
they also pick up your packages every
Friday and your donations. So great. And
they're just the nicest people. So, I'm
really excited to see them see them
thrive.
>> I love that pick. Uh, I was looking up
their domain name, getcasa.com. And I
think they're only in the Bay Area right
now, and I think they're expanding into
LA right now.
>> Expanding into LA. Yep.
>> Sweet. That's a good pick. And their
website is very bare. I don't even know
how you sign up,
>> but uh yeah, I think I don't know. I
guess you could figure it out, but uh I
I love Costa. Uh yeah, they also do like
a filter rotation thing. So like every
six months they come and replace all
your filters or air purifiers and
whatever. You can set you can set like
maintenance for your dishwasher, for
your air filters, for your uh washer
dryer, which has been super cool to see.
Um they also you get handyman credits
every month. So all the things that you
put off do doing uh they can come in and
and do it themselves and it's it's just
wonderful.
>> Awesome. Okay, two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to in work or in life?
>> Um I asked my husband about this one. I
was like, "What's my life motto?" Um,
and he had such a nice answer that I I
thought I'd go with it. Uh, we have this
saying with our kids, first the guests.
Um, so if you have guests over, which we
love to host people in our house, um,
our rule with our three kids is guests
always go first. And I think that um,
it's really something that we think
about in terms of being of service to
others, being respectful to others,
being welcoming, being kind. Um, and I
think that that has dictated a lot of
who I am as a person and and how we're
trying to be as a family. When you are
of service to others, when you are
inclusive, um, when you can put them
first ahead of yourself, I think it
actually brings a lot of joy to you. Um,
and it certainly makes the world a
little bit better.
>> Oh, one of the core values at Airbnb was
be a host.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is very appropriate for Airbnb,
but such a broadly uh, useful lens,
>> right? I've also recently heard uh if if
you want a village, be a villager.
>> Um and so this idea of just building
community, reaching out, being there for
other people, and really taking that
first step, even if it's scary or
overwhelming, um can really can really
make a difference.
>> Final question, you have some cool
posters behind you if people are
watching on YouTube. Is there one that's
like a favorite? Is there one that has a
story per chance?
>> Ah, that's such a good question. So, uh,
these are all my husband's posters. He
is a musician. He loves guitar. Uh, so
he picked them all, but I think that I
have to say my favorite one is probably,
uh, Jimmyi Hendris plays the Greek. Uh,
so we live in Berkeley and uh, you
can't, it's just slightly off camera,
but it's just a great memory of sort of
an incredible musician. Um, and the
iconic place that that we're lucky
enough to live in and sort of the great
access to culture that we have here, but
also just how important music is to our
lives, how much
>> is such a cool venue. Just like if
people don't know, it's just like this
outdoor amphitheater with grass. You can
get blankets.
>> Should everyone should go. It's such a
fun spot. Right. right on UC Berkeley's
campus. Um, and they've got great music
and we're really lucky to live close by.
>> Well, with that, Jessica, I thank you so
much for being here. Two final
questions. Where can folks find you
online if they want to reach out at,
maybe follow up on anything here? And
how can listeners be useful to you?
>> I am not a very online person, which is,
you know, funny for being on this
podcast. So, I think the main place I am
online is on LinkedIn. Um, and so you
could definitely find me there. Um, in
terms of being useful uh to me, I would
love to hear what resonated for you,
what's worked for you in the past, how
you're seeing these things show up in
your work, um, and how I can get better
at, um, you know, uplifting the tech
community. And as we go through this
period of tremendous change, uh, how I
can show up, uh, as a leader and as a a
source of community for for this group
of folks.
>> What change are you speaking of?
Nothing.
>> It's called AI. We're still talking
about AI.
>> Oh, man. All right. Well, Jessica, thank
you so much for being here.
>> Yeah. Thanks.
>> Bye, everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.